You were supposed to be on uh earlier
this year, but you you canceled on us at
the last minute because I think you had
a special special delivery that arrived.
>> That is correct. Yeah. I had a new baby
girl that entered the world a few weeks
early.
>> Congratulations. I mean, so here's the
guy who you're trying to replace human
workers with robots, but you got a side
gig making babies. Does that mean you're
you're hedging your bets?
>> No, I think both will coexist. That's
the name of the game.
Today on Bold Names, we have Jeff
Cardinas. He is the CEO of Austin, Texas
humanoid robot company, Aptronic. And
while he may have just added a human to
his family, he imagines a future where
families will be adding humanoids to
their households, except something that
looks like C3PO with a glow up.
>> Yeah, Tim, the thought warms my heart.
adding one of these robots to my own
household. It's a long-term goal.
They're gonna be more like Rosie though
from the Jetsons.
>> Coming.
>> Here I am.
>> And I realize not all of you are going
to get that reference. She's the
housekeeper in that show. Anyway,
doesn't matter. What matters is
Apptronic is going to be how he realizes
this vision of future home health
robots.
>> But it's more than that. He sees these
things in industries. as he sees them in
healthcare, really driving the US
economy and helping the US keep its
place in the global order. But it's not
so simple that it's a race with China,
which he sees as a real uh rival to
building, developing, and deploying this
kind of technology. So, here's Jeff.
Jeff, welcome. You're the CEO of a robot
company. Does uh your robot have a name?
>> Yes, our robot's name is Apollo.
>> Yeah. And I've seen some videos uh uh on
the internet of Apollo and if it was a
Tinder uh situation, I think the stats
would be uh 5'8, 160 lb. Interests
appear to be moving boxes around a
factory. What What exactly can Apollo
do?
>> Apollo has many interests. Moving boxes
is just one of them. Um so the idea is
long term Apollo can do pretty much
anything a person can do today. uh
though we're still in the early days. So
very simple things today. So largely
we're focused in manufacturing and
logistics things where you're picking
and placing where you need a little more
dexterity but still relatively simple
tasks compared to where you'll see these
robots go in the future.
>> So we love getting in the weeds on this
show. Before we get too much deeper
though, I got to ask you if we take a
step back, what is your larger
motivation? Why did you want to start a
robot company in the first place?
Well, I'll I'll try to give the short
answer for that, but I I mean my my
primary motivation is to be useful. What
does it mean to improve the way we live
and work and where do you focus? So, I
was very interested in health care, the
way we take care of each other, you
know, and in particularly in the way we
age. So, I was very close to both of my
granddads. I'd seen both of them age.
And one of the sort of observations I
made was that as people age, we lost our
they they lose their dignity. So for
both of my grandfathers, they, you know,
they were war heroes. They were
veterans. They never relied on anybody
for anything. And in the late years of
their lives, they had to rely on people
for everything, including, you know, to
take them to the bathroom, to do all
sorts of things that they would rather
not have relied on people to do. And so
my my dream was, well, what if you could
build a robot to do all of these things
that humans don't want to do? What would
that free us up to do? And I think
that's a really interesting question.
And turns out that's been a long
journey. We're we're now over a decade
into this. But that was the motivation
is really to make a contribution to the
world and to the species and try to push
us forward.
>> And so from where Apollo is now working
in factories beginning to do dextrous
manipulation to home healthcare that is
a long journey. There are many steps
along the way.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you see? What is your projected
timeline for that? And what are the
milestones along the way?
>> Yeah, so the way I see this rolling out
is in in three stages. You can kind of
think of it in some ways as easy to
hard, though I would say all of this is
relatively hard. But stage one is the
industrial base. This is where you can
control the environment and where you
have experts that can work around these
machines. So these are like logistics
and manufacturing. Stage two is where we
start to introduce robots, let's say, to
the public. So now robots are working
with and around uh humans and the public
around your kids around your parents
your grandparents. These are places like
retail and health care. So that's stage
two. Still this is a commercial setting
in my view where we have tasks that are
you know more continuous that are not as
discreet as where you enter in phase
three where you have the home and then
the holy grail for me is is assistive
care. So I would say that the first
phase is happening today. Thing I like
to point out is that this is basically
you know the personal computer for
robotics. I think of the humanoid as the
general purpose platform that can scale
but it's early. This is the the 80s
maybe of if you use that analogy and I
think
>> yeah it could also be the 60s though.
>> That's true. I think it depends on you
know my view spending a lot of time in
this and and I sort of openly admit that
we were very naive going into this we we
frankly didn't know you know what we
were getting ourselves into I think it
is more like the 80s like we do have the
systems we do have the capabilities we
have early commercial applications that
can show tremendous value to our
customers so I think that by 2035 you
will see these robots in homes the
question is how quick is that uptake?
Um, and I think that's a point of
debate, but I think we're now in the
window and I think you're going to see a
very fast acceleration.
>> Just make sure I understand things
correctly. You all are essentially
designing the robot body, right? One of
the big things I've heard you talk about
in the past is the importance of owning
kind of the technology and the actuators
which are really, as I think about it,
as kind of like the muscle of a robot.
Why is that so critical for you to kind
of own that?
>> Well, I think you know this is a complex
system that's very interdicciplinary
and you can think of what a robot is.
It's basically a network of motors and
sensors. So, and I don't know if this is
too deep but an explanation sort of how
>> go deep.
>> Okay. So, how robotics is shifting is
traditional robots were called position
controlled robots. So, basically I have
motors and I'm just going to a place in
space. What's happening now for robots
>> these are what these you think of these
arms and factories that move around
>> like in an automotive factory right
>> that's right basically the way these
robots work is you say go to position
one go to position two go to position
three close your hand and then you write
this sort of stepbystep process and you
hit play and the robot just runs this
script over and over the way robots for
the age of AI work is we're now having
sensors in the feedback loop so we have
cameras we have force sensing touch
sensing, we have temperature, we have an
accelerometer that can sense position
and orientation. So, we have all sorts
of sensors that we're bringing together
so the robot can be aware and can be
sort of dynamic and respond to the
environment that's out there. And so,
for us, this is the core building block.
And this is what drives performance and
cost in the robot is the actuators.
>> Yeah. You know, it's interesting. One of
the things I like to talk about is is
the business side. uh you've already
raised something like $400 million this
year and I'm curious who are some of
those bigname investors and what are you
actually using that money for? Yeah,
Google was a dream for us early on. Um
we we've been it's been really amazing
to work with them and see all the
innovations that are happening there. So
Google was a big anchor investor. So
you're creating this body, you're
creating the muscles, you have kind of
like the extended nervous system of the
robot in terms of these sensors, but
somebody's got to make the brain, right?
And that's Google. Is that the idea
here?
>> Yes, today that's Google. So we've been
working deeply with them. We're very
well known for building amazing
hardware. So we'll build the best
platform. We'll work with the best AI
researchers in the world at Google
DeepMine, and we'll come together and
really try to make a contribution to the
space. I'm curious what is going on with
AI right now in the developments or the
advances that you see that is kind of
making this a moment for AI to really be
the brains of the body that you're
making.
>> So the simple idea is the robots are
learning. So traditionally what we've
done is basically program the robot to
do a particular function.
>> This is how it was done in the past is
essentially it was given instructions on
how to do a task.
>> Correct. And you would build even if it
was AI enabled, you might build an
application for a robot that you know
was a box moving application. The
challenge of that approach was every new
thing you wanted the robot to do took
the same amount of incremental time. So
I'm downstacking boxes off of a pallet.
Now I want to take those boxes. I want
to move them to a conveyor belt. The
each one of those discrete tasks took
the same amount of effort of engineering
effort. What's changed what we call this
foundation model so this is generative
AI applied to robotics is that the
robots can now learn and the interesting
thing why you hear a lot of
conversations about humanoids is where
do you get that data what are the robots
learning from and what's happening is
the robots are learning directly from
humans we can see humans doing tasks in
their environments and if we have a
robot that is shaped like a human it can
do the task in a very similar way
learning from a
The the promise of that is basically now
we can very quickly add a whole host of
new tasks where anything becomes fair
game and that kind of changes everything
about what robots are capable of and
where they can be applied in the future.
So, I have to say, as much as I would
not bet against Google DeepMind, I'm I'm
skeptical that the field of AI as a
whole is at an inflection point that
will allow for
uh widespread flexible robots that can
switch between tasks. What if Google
DeepMind is wrong? I mean, is it
possible that you have built a a viable
robot body, but that you are 20 years
early? and and if so, you know, what are
how are you going to pivot?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think of course that's a
possibility and and I think, you know,
this is it's fair to have skepticism
when you're making big claims about
this. One of the knocks we got when we
first started was everyone said, "We
thought we would have humanoids in the
80s. We thought we would have them in
the '9s. We thought we'd have them in
the early 2000s." Like, is this the same
thing all over again? I would argue the
answer to that is no. It's different,
right? And the interesting thing about
robotics is that seeing is believing,
right? So show versus tell. We can
actually demonstrate our results on a
physical robot. And that's how you sort
of solve the debate is by proving this
stuff not in the lab and not in a shiny,
you know, video, a well edited video,
but actually out in the real world.
>> And just as a quick aside, where are
your pilot programs now where you're
demonstrating this works in the real
world?
>> So we're still early in these pilots.
We're working with folks like GXO and
Mercedes, but a handful of others.
>> GXO being a logistics company. So that's
the warehouse stuff.
>> GXO, Logistics Company, and then
Mercedes. Those are our two, you know,
deep partnerships that we've been very
public about, but we have a handful of
others that we're working with. To
answer your question about, you know,
whether we're we're uh how do we know
that they're right? There's an
interesting story about Google. So
Google bought most of the humanoid
companies on the market maybe 10 years
ago. So they bought Boston Dynamics
>> which they no longer own. They bought
and flipped it.
>> They d Yeah. They devest they divested
them. They bought a company called
Mecca, Redwood Robotics. They bought a
handful of companies, six or seven
different companies. And they were
early. The interesting thing about
working with Google, we got started in
2016. And I always wanted to work with
them. Like they're the ones that are
this is where all the action is
happening. We have to work with Google.
But by the time we got to Google, by the
time we had enough, you know, technology
and profile, humanoids was a a dirty
word at Google. It's like, hey, we we
just spent hundreds of millions of
dollars on humanoids. It was too early.
There was a lot of skepticism there. And
it took the course of a, you know,
almost a decade to sort of get back to
the point that Google said, "Okay, we
were early last time, but now we're in
the window." When I listen to you and I
kind of see that the parts that you're
moving around, in a lot of ways, it kind
of seems like you're trying to build the
car company of of robot companies.
Really? You you talk about the goal of
these the cost of these robots is
something like a car, less than $50,000.
And how far away from that are you?
>> We we know how to do sub $50,000 now.
So, you know, Elon calls this the idiot
test, right? Elon Musk, the the guy
who's got a lot of robot dreams of his
own over at Tesla with Optimus, his
humanoid robot.
>> That's right. Yeah. So, the cost of the
raw materials relative to the cost of a
final product. If you compare a humanoid
robot to a car, there's 96% less raw
material by weight in a humanoid robot
as compared to a car. So, the base metal
of a humanoid robot, at least our
robots, are aluminum. There's only about
$300 of raw aluminum in the entire
robot. What that means is that from
first principles, there's no inherent
reason why these robots have to be
expensive and why they won't be much
cheaper than cars, as you build up the
supply chain and as you build up volume,
but there's no supply chain that exists
yet today. So, we have to be we have to
build a lot more than you might in the
future. And um we're not producing these
in high enough volume yet where we can
really crank that dial and sort of
amvertise all the the the capital costs
across a lot of robots.
>> So I don't know if it's just about the
cost of the raw materials going in.
You're building an intelligent machine.
>> Sure. Sure. I mean and and we're
building a lot of the components in
these robots are things that are being
used elsewhere. So for example, the
commercial drone industry is one of the
things that drove down the cost of the
types of motors that we need. Electric
vehicles and are one of the things that
drove down the cost of batteries. So now
batteries are good enough. So we're
basically taking a lot of these
component technologies that have been
matured in other industries and you're
kind of bringing them together into the
ultimate form factor.
>> Let's go a little bit deeper in that
manufacturing strategy because it in a
lot of ways uh it sounds like the
classic Silicon Valley asset like
approach. you are turning to contract
manufacturing for these robots right to
a company called Jable which is similar
to how Apple does those iPhones with
Foxcon. Um why is this part of your road
map? So right now today we are designing
assembling um the systems here in
Austin, Texas and we're starting to
transition more of this to Jable as we
ramp basically doing final assembly here
in Austin Texas and we'll start to do
more of that with Jable over time. So a
lot of people like to point out Tesla
and they say Tesla is entirely
vertically integrated. Like how are you
guys not going to own manufacturing? How
will we compete against Tesla? But those
those folks don't do it from a point of
view of actually understanding the
history of Tesla. Tesla actually worked
with contract manufacturers in the early
days. People talk about the AI stack and
they say you have to own your AI stack
or you're not competitive. Tesla didn't
own autopilot in the early days. They
worked with Mobileey. So they worked
with other experts at particular areas
and that's one of the things that
allowed them to play for more and more
vertical integration over time. And so
the the way that I think about building
a company like this is you want to
choose your battles. What we know how to
do very well, what I would say better
than anyone else in the world is build
amazing robots, build amazing software.
So we're really focused on that and we
want to work with the best manufacturers
in the world. So, we talked to a lot of
different manufacturers and we have a
great relationship with Jable. And so,
this is where we're starting. This is
not necessarily where we're ending over
time. I mean, my dream coming out of
graduate school was a big factory,
robots, building robots on the Colorado
River right here in Austin, Texas. And,
you know, my view is that's something
that we have to earn, right? So, we have
to get there and we want to, you know,
we want to do that in a smart way where
we choose our battles. in part in in
part I have to imagine because
manufacturing is just a cash intensive
business right I mean it just seems to
eat cash in a way that I think a lot of
people don't understand until they get
into the deep of it and you point out a
very good interesting point about Tesla
they began with contract manufacturing
that turned to Lotus to make the
Roadster in their early days but then
very quickly realized that they didn't
quite control everything in a way that
they needed to and they ran into some
trouble with cash and that sort of
thing. How confident are you you can
kind of get your your fingers into the
details and manage this stuff as it
starts to become more complex?
>> We tried to learn from all those
lessons. You know, I'm a student of of
other entrepreneurs and other failures.
So, we've tried to learn from all of
those. Bring in folks who have been
successful at doing things like this in
the past. But could we be wrong? Sure.
Could I come back on the show in a year
and say, "Hey, we tried this strategy
and it was painful and our yields were
bad and you know, I've decided that we
need to be more vertically integrated."
Sure. You know, like
>> Well, I guess what what did you learn?
It sounds like you study Tesla a lot.
What did you learn from that those early
days of of their exploration and asset
line? Well, not from Tesla directly, but
there's, you know, there's many stories
of startups raising a bunch of money,
building something like a factory that,
you know, can be a cash furnace if you
don't have predictable demand, right?
We're still iterating quite a bit on the
different models of these robots in the
early days. And so all of that fixed
assets that you have to build to all the
personnel that you need early on that
that's killed other startups in
aerospace and you know the list goes on.
But you know the the most valuable
lessons is the school of hard knocks.
The lessons you learn along the journey
and so you know we're at the front end
of this. I'm sure we'll learn tough
lessons along the way but right now this
has worked very well. You know we're in
the early stages of this so we'll see
how it develops over the next year. So
400 million approximately your raise,
that seems like a lot of money. Uh given
how capital intensive this is, I think
if you succeed uh at achieving your
goals, that's going to feel like a drop
in the bucket at some point in the
future. How much more are you going to
need and when?
>> I mean, we're going to need billions of
dollars to do what we aim to do, right?
You know, we're already getting a lot of
inbound. There's a lot of excitement and
demand from investors across the world.
There's only a handful of companies that
my view is that are really competing you
know for this space. In the early days,
I believe there would be many different
players in the space because the market
is so large. Like where do you want to
start and will there be niche companies
that are focused on health care and
focused on logistics and potentially
that's how it will play out in the early
stages. But I think as you start to get
to scale, the amount of capital that's
required to do something like this at
the scope that we aim to will require
billions of dollars.
>> Let's let's start talking about that
competition that you just alluded to.
Um, at this point, who is your biggest
competitor?
>> I think Tesla and Figure are the folks
that we think about, you know,
consistently. We see Figure out in the
market. Uh, as well, um,
>> they're also doing parts handling in a
in a factory, I believe.
>> Figure is another robot company.
>> Figure is another uh robot company. You
could think of this as like the east and
the west. So, I think this is an
interesting discussion as well, like
>> East Coast, West Coast,
>> the West. Sure. The the West v China,
right? So, it's like China and then and
then the US really are the sort of
leading this race right now. It's I've
sort of called this the space race of
our time. You can't uh have this
conversation without talking about
what's happening at CH in China uh
because they're a real force. They're
moving very quickly and pouring tons of
capital. So, I think it's going to be
interesting to see how that plays out.
I'm a little surprised you mentioned
Tesla just because,
you know, frankly, as with self-driving,
it feels like Tesla excels at demos, but
uh there are definitely what seem like
some holes in their story in terms of
actually rolling it out.
>> Well, they do have they do have some
robot cars on in the streets in Austin.
>> That is true. With safety drivers. Um I
mean, why do you include them among your
competitors?
I think because they will be a fierce
competitor in this space. I mean this is
a very small community. We all know each
other. You know Elon said over and over
that the future value of Tesla is going
to be you know 80% driven by optimist.
So
>> he does bring a level of excitement to
spaces that he goes to right and I mean
he's talking he has talked about Tesla
having had made something like 10,000
robots uh by the end of this year.
>> How many robots have you done?
>> Yeah. How many robots have you done?
>> Less than a thousand. So,
>> okay. So, aren't you already behind?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, let's see if they do 10,000 by the
end of this year. It's tough to do, but
sure.
>> You know, they do. They are, you know, a
trillion dollar plus company who has a
very strong technical engineering team.
Um, and they're going after it in a big
way and they saw it relatively early
compared to many of the folks in the
world, right? So I would argue Google
was the first to this space but Elon
really leaned in early in 2021 and I
think they are going to be a contender
and we we take that you know we take
that seriously. The question is going to
be about adoption. Like who what company
do you trust? Right? When you start to
think about the big markets in the home,
these robots have lots of sensors,
cameras, what robot do you trust inside
of your house? And you and and I think
that's where sort of the the long-term
uh battle is going to be won. And we've
tried to do everything we can to be
transparent about what we're doing and
try to build this the best way that we
can. You know, it's interesting. You
mentioned that China is where the
competition really gets interesting. And
I'm curious from your perspective, what
assets do those Chinese competitors have
that make them a real threat?
>> They have manufacturing capacity and the
supply chain to move very quickly. So,
they can iterate very fast and we're
already seeing that. I think they still
are behind on the AI side, but they have
a different philosophy and approach. So
one of the interesting things that the
Chinese companies are doing that's very
difficult to do in sort of the
capitalist structure here in the US is
they're working together. They have open
standards for sharing data. Uh they are
open sourcing their models and even
their hardware designs. And so this is
allowing sort of like an ecosystem where
the rising tide lifts all boats versus
you know in the US we're competing for
capital. We're very sort of focused on
what we're doing sort of, you know, with
each individual company. So, I'm seeing,
you know, the rate of change happen very
quickly. The other thing that the
Chinese have is they have a national
robotic strategy and they've had one for
many years. There's two sides to a
national robotic strategy. One is the
creation and sort of the support of the
research and development that's
required, the capital that's required.
They've announced a 1 trillion yuan
national fund. That's about $1 138
billion. So they have the capital
pouring into this sector, but on the
other side they're incentivizing demand
and uptake from companies. They'll give
you, you know, they'll pay for these
robots. They'll give rebates for the
robots. And in the US, we don't have a
national robotic strategy. It's been
something that a lot of folks have been
working on for many years, but I think
it's something that if we want to be
competitive globally, I think robotics
will be a key to competing globally in
the future, we'll need to have here in
the US.
>> You know, I get it. You are a US
company. you want the US to win in a in
a race with China, but uh beyond just
your winning, why do you feel that the
US needs to beat China uh in this
development of humanoid robots? What's
at stake in the bigger picture?
>> I mean, what is an economy, right? An
economy is like productivity per person.
If you change the number of productive
units, you change an economy
fundamentally. So, my view is there's
nothing bigger than this, right? like
what's the key to solving health care,
to cleaning up our environment, to
building the types of goods and services
that we need like I think robotics will
drive national competitiveness and
national security in the future. You
know, that's why I call this the space
race. It was important for us to get to
the moon first because we wanted to
shape sort of future policy. I think the
same thing will be true in robotics
where we want to see our point of view
um in the future. And so this will be
the key to us being competitive, you
know, building the the things that
society requires in the future. And we
don't want to rely on another uh
government for the technologies and
capabilities we need in the future.
>> So in classical economics, you have
capital and you have labor. You have
human beings and the things that they
use to produce goods and services.
technology is a multiplier on
individuals productivity. So are you
saying that robots change that equation
in some way that that that then robots
become part of the basis of a national
economy?
>> Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I am saying
that.
>> Well, Jeeoff, this has been a really
great conversation. I think we've
covered uh throughout the whole uh part
kind of this all the stages of humanity
and what you think how robots will fit
into humanity in the future. So, I just
want to say thanks for coming on today.
Thank you guys for having me.
>> We reached out to Google which did not
respond to a request for comment. And a
quick note earlier in the conversation,
Jeff was referring to Elon Musk's
so-called idiot index when he said Idiot
test. We reached out to Tesla for
comment. They didn't respond.
[Music]